Add CONTRIBUTING.md (#112)
ansible-collections/community.mysql: CONTRIBUTING.md

Also somebody can already start discussing or working on implementing the same or similar idea,
so you can cooperate to create a better solution together.

## Open pull requests

Look through currently [open pull requests](https://github.com/ansible-collections/community.mysql/pulls).
You can help by reviewing them. There can be good pull requests which are not merged only because there are a lack of reviews. Also there can be worth, reviewed, but abandoned ones, which you could politely ask the original authors to complete yourself.
And it is always worth saying that good reviews are often more valuable than pull requests themselves.

## Looking for an idea to implement

First, see the paragraphs above.

If you came up with a new feature, it is always worth creating an issue
before starting to write code to discuss the idea with the community first.

## Step-by-step guide how to get into development quickly

We assume you use Linux as a work environment (you can use a virtual machine as well).

1. Install ``docker``, launch it.

2. Clone the [ansible-core](https://github.com/ansible/ansible) repository:
```bash
git clone https://github.com/ansible/ansible.git
```

> 3. Go to the cloned repository and prepare the environment:

Reviewer: I can't add a suggestion to the above line, so I'm adding it here :)
```suggestion
Instead of installing ansible-core from source, you can also work with an already existing installation of Ansible, ansible-base or ansible-core. Simply skip steps 3 and 4 in that case.

3. Go to the cloned repository and prepare the environment:
```

Author: Committed, thanks

Author: ah, no, "the diff is outdated". will do it manually

Author: @felixfontein changed. I changed the numbers of steps. Could you please re-check if it's what you meant?

```bash
cd ansible && source hacking/env-setup
pip install -r requirements.txt
cd ~
```
4. Create the following directories in your home directory:
```bash
mkdir -p ~/ansible_collections/community/mysql
```

5. Fork the ``community.mysql`` repository via the GitHub web interface.

6. Clone the forked repository from your profile to the created path:
```bash

> git clone https://github.com/YOURACC/community.mysql.git ~/ansible_collections/community/mysql

Reviewer: Doesn't it make more sense to clone via ssh and not via https? Pushing things with https is pretty annoying :)

Author: Yeah, agreed that ssh is much better option generally.
Wouldn't a newbie have to generate SSH and do other necessary steps for that? It's not hard to set up but can be painful for complete newbies IMO. I think it could be made later, after a coder's first PR merged and they're happy:)
I'll add the option!

Author: done

You are interested in a subdirectory containing a name of module you are going to change.
For example, if you are fixing the ``mysql_user`` module, its tests are in ``tests/integration/targets/test_mysql_user/tasks``

There is the ``main.yml`` file which includes other test files.
Look for a suitable one to integrate your tests or create and include a dedicated one.
You can use one of the existing as a draft.

When fixing a bug, write a task which reproduces the bug from the issue.

Put the reported case in the tests, then run integration tests with the following command:
```bash
ansible-test integration test_mysql_user --docker -vvv > ~/test.log
```
If the tests do not want to run, first, check you complete step 3 of this guide.

If the tests ran successfully, there are usually two possible outcomes:
a) If the bug has not appeared and the tests have passed successfully, ask the reporter to provide more details. The bug can be not a bug actually or can relate to a particular software version used or specifics of local environment configuration.

b) The bug has appeared and the tests has failed as expected showing the reported symptoms.

14. Fix the bug.

> 15. Run ``flake8``:

Reviewer 2: I have never used `flake8`, actually never heard of it, probably because I'm not a python developer :).

So do you consider this much useful to be included in this documentation?

I have not used `flake8` again, so I'm no sure.

Author: It helped me much. It runs very quickly - almost instant, and helps find most common issues like wrong indentation, spaces, etc. + unused imports which are not shown by sanity tests.
I think it's worth adding it (but it's only my opinion)

Reviewer: I'm using it a lot as well, it has the advantage over pylint, ansible-test and other tools that it is so fast. The only annoying part is the line length limit, but then there's `--ignore=E501` which is already part of my muscle memory ;-)

Reviewer 3: Do we need to include `--max-line-length=160`? 
I haven't used `flake8` so not sure what's needed

Author: @gundalow Thanks, I didn't know it exists:) My personal preference is to see warnings generated by flake8 because code looks much better if the lines are around 80-100. In case of 160, the tool will be silent. Let's see what other folks think.
@felixfontein @aminvakil your thoughts?

Reviewer 2: I can only think of adding `(optional)` or something like that to this step so that if user wanted to stick to `ansible-test` doesn't feel they have left out a step. Other than that I agree with @Andersson007 about seeing a warning when line is too lengthy.

Author: Sounds sensible, thanks

Author: I mentioned the argument and that this is optional

```bash
flake8 /path/to/changed/file
```

> It is worth installing and running and ``flake8`` against the changed file(s) first.

Reviewer 3: > against the changed file(s) first.

Does the order of the steps need changing?

Author: @gundalow do you mean the extra `and` (Fixed, thanks!) or changing the step with sanity tests?
If the second one - I added the note. It's better to run flake8 first because sanity tests will show everything (except unused imports) but they run much longer. Running flake8 first will probably save time.

Reviewer 3: At the moment you have
Fix bug 
Run flake8

Should the order be 
Run flake8 
Run tests

Author: Now it's:
```
119 14. Fix the bug.
121 15. Run ``flake8``:
128 16. Run sanity tests:
135 17. Run integration tests:
```
Which seems to be fine to me:) Sorry, I haven't slept very well today, not sure I fully understand

It shows unused imports, which is not shown by sanity tests, as well as other common issues.

16. Run sanity tests:
```bash
ansible-test sanity /path/to/changed/file --docker

> ```

Reviewer 3: Might be good to add an example here

Author: Added, thanks

If they failed, look at the output carefully - it is usually very informative and helps to identify a problem line quickly.
Sanity failings usually relate to wrong code and documentation formatting.

17. Run integration tests:
```bash

> ansible-test integration test_mysql_user --docker -vvv > ~/test.log

Reviewer 3: does ansible-test output on STDOUT and STDERR

Author: with such a command we'll see just a fact that it crashed in a console but all information needed will be in the test.log. I don't know, this works for me well

Reviewer 2: What about running it without `> ~/test.log`?

Author: Mm, IMO, you're right. I think it's a personal choice and not really necessary.

Author: done

GitHub is tracking your fork, so it should see the new branch in it and automatically offer
to create a pull request. Sometimes GitHub does not do it and you should click the ``New pull request`` button yourself.
Then choose ``compare across forks`` under the ``Compare changes`` title.
Choose your repository and the new branch you pushed in the right drop-down list.
Confirm. Fill out the pull request template with all information you want to mention.
Put "Fixes + link to the issue" in the pull request's description.
Put "[WIP] + short description" in the pull request's title.
Click ``Create pull request``.

22. Add a [changelog fragment](https://docs.ansible.com/ansible/devel/community/development_process.html#changelogs) to the ``changelog/fragments`` directory. It will be published in release notes, so users will know about the fix.

23. The CI tests will run automatically on Red Hat infrastructure after every commit.

You will see their status in the bottom of your pull request.
If they are green, remove "[WIP]" from the title. Mention the issue reporter in a comment and let contributors know that the pull request is "Ready for review".

> 24. Wait for reviews.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
24. Wait for reviews. You can also ask for review on IRC in #ansible-community channel.
```

Author: Good suggestion! Committed

There you can find feature ideas to implement, reports about bugs to solve, or submit an issue to discuss your idea before implementing it which can help choose a right direction initially and potentially save a lot of time and effort.
Also somebody can already start discussing or working on implementing the same or similar idea,
so you can cooperate to create a better solution together.

## Open pull requests

Look through currently [open pull requests](https://github.com/ansible-collections/community.mysql/pulls).
You can help by reviewing them. There can be good pull requests which are not merged only because there are a lack of reviews. Also there can be worth, reviewed, but abandoned ones, which you could politely ask the original authors to complete yourself.
And it is always worth saying that good reviews are often more valuable than pull requests themselves.

## Looking for an idea to implement

First, see the paragraphs above.

If you came up with a new feature, it is always worth creating an issue
before starting to write code to discuss the idea with the community first.

> ## Step-by-step guide how to get into development quickly.

Author: @aminvakil thanks for the feedback!
The purpose of the guide (as I see it) to allow newcomers to understand a necessary minimum of what they actually should, set up a basic environment, and get their patches submitted quickly. That's why I put the link to the dev guide to the end and not put any links to the sections (like about integration tests) intentionally not to overwhelm people with not really crucial information at least for the moment.
When they get their first PR merged (I hope quickly), it's very inspiring itself (as it was at least for me) and can motivate them very well to go further. Otherwise, going through a ton of guides at this *early* stage, they can say "Oh, it's too overwhelming and time consuming to read this stuff from cover to cover, I'd better go to play a computer game":)
So it's necessary minimal given, I went through the guide myself on a clear environment - seems workable:)

> ## Step-by-step guide how to get into development quickly.

Author: Thanks!:)

We assume you use Linux as a work environment (you can use a virtual machine as well).

> 1. Install ``docker``, launch it.

Author: It's not needed but it's easier to use it rather then struggle with all requirements and dependencies.
It's not different from other collections, I think. It's very convenient to run at least sanity and units with docker.
I think it's fair for all the collections.
The goal, as i mentioned, is to make the first contribution as smooth as possible.

> 1. Install ``docker``, launch it.

Reviewer: How about changing this to something like:
```suggestion
1. If possible, make sure that you have installed and started `docker`. While you can also run tests without docker, this makes it a lot easier since you do not have to install the precise requirements and tests are running properly isolated and in the exact same environments as in CI. You often can also use `podman` with the `docker` executable shim, so if you have that you probably do not need to install `docker`.
```
(MarkDown uses single backticks for code formatting btw :) )

> 1. Install ``docker``, launch it.

Reviewer 2: Is `podman` mentioning worth? I'm not sure how many users are familiar with `podman` but not `docker`.

I'm saying this for the sake of simplicity and reducing doc length.

> 1. Install ``docker``, launch it.

Author: LGTM.
One minor thing: I'd join @aminvakil 's question about `podman`. I'm not against though.

@felixfontein thanks for pointing out the backticks issue. i saw that the double works as well but didn't know that it's not a standard way. Will change

> 1. Install ``docker``, launch it.

Author: (discussed)

2. Clone the [ansible-core](https://github.com/ansible/ansible) repository:
```bash
git clone https://github.com/ansible/ansible.git

> ```

Reviewer: I would skip these steps. Developing collections can also be done with a regular Ansible 2.9, 2.10 or 3 install.

Author: I sometimes notice that when i forget to run `source hacking/env-setup`, tests against collections don't work

Reviewer: But in case you installed ansible regularly (as most people do), that isn't needed.

Author: it's not needed but wouldn't it be better to use a version from devel? I don't insist, just interesting to know

Reviewer: My main argument against it would be that it makes it harder to set everything up :) If you use the regular version of Ansible(-base/-core) you have installed anyway, most things will just work the same way.

Author: Ok:) I wouldn't like to break the fragile equilibrium reached:) So, would be perfect if you remove it as suggested and make the document consistent in other parts (because I've never used the default installation). Do you have a bit time for that?

3. Go to the cloned repository and prepare the environment:
```bash
cd ansible && source hacking/env-setup
cd ~
```

4. Fork the ``community.mysql`` repository via the GitHub web interface.

5. Clone the forked repository from your profile:
```bash
git clone https://github.com/YOURACC/community.mysql.git

> ```

Author: Done, thanks! This suggestion made the guide one-step shorter:)

6. Create the following directories in your home directory:
```bash
mkdir -p ~/ansible_collections/community
```

7. Move the cloned repository:
```bash
mv community.mysql ~/ansible_collections/community/mysql
```

8. Go there:
```bash
cd ~/ansible_collections/community/mysql
```

9. Be sure you are in the main branch:
```bash
git status
```

10. Show remotes. There should be the ``origin`` repository only:
```bash
git remote -v
```

11. Add the ``upstream`` repository:
```bash
git remote add upstream https://github.com/ansible-collections/community.mysql.git
```

12. Update your local ``main`` branch:
```bash
git fetch upstream

> git merge upstream/main

Reviewer: ```suggestion
git rebase upstream/main
```
Never merge, always rebase. Otherwise you end up with merge commits and annoy everyone :)

Author: I have never got it though:) OK, will think thanks!

```

13. Create a branch for your changes:
```bash
git branch -b name_of_my_branch
```

> 14. In any case, a good approach is to start from writing [integration tests](https://docs.ansible.com/ansible/latest/dev_guide/testing_integration.html).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
14. In any case, a good approach is to start with writing [integration tests](https://docs.ansible.com/ansible/latest/dev_guide/testing_integration.html).
```
I'm not sure whether this is good advice - at least for collections where integration tests often not (community.genreal) or never (community.hrobot) exist.

Author: Good spot, thanks!

> Briefly, all integration tests are just Ansible roles and are stored in ``tests/integration/targets`` subdirectories.

Reviewer: I would move this big chunk of text into another section, so one can complete the steps without having to read it.

Author: Good spot!

Author: Done + I simplified it and add a bit of useful information.

It shows unused imports, which is not shown by sanity tests, as well as other common issues.

17. Run sanity tests:
```bash
ansible-test sanity /path/to/changed/file --docker
```
If they failed, look at the output carefully - it is usually very informative and helps to identify a problem line quickly.
Sanity failings usually relate to wrong code and documentation formatting.

18. Run integration tests:
```bash
ansible-test integration test_mysql_user --docker -vvv > ~/test.log
```

There are two possible outcomes:
a) They have failed. Look into the ``test.log``.
Errors are usually at the end of the file.
Fix the problem place in the code and run again.
Repeat the cycle until the tests pass.

b) They have passed. Remember they failed originally? Our congratulations! You has probably fixed the bug, though we hope not introducing a couple of new ones;)

19. Commit your changes with an informative but short commit message:
```bash
git add /path/to/changed/file
git commit -m "mysql_user: fix crash when ..."
```

20. Push the branch to the ``origin`` (your fork):
```bash
git push origin name_of_my_branch
```

> 21. Go to the ``upstream`` (http://github.com/ansible-collections/community.mysql.git

Reviewer: ```suggestion
21. Go to the ``upstream`` (http://github.com/ansible-collections/community.mysql)
```

Author: Nice shot

22. Go to ``Pull requests`` tab and create a pull request.

GitHub is tracking your fork, so it should see the new branch in it and automatically offer
to create a pull request. Sometimes GitHub does not do it and you should click the ``New pull request`` button yourself.
Then choose ``compare across forks`` under the ``Compare changes`` title.
Choose your repository and the new branch you pushed in the right drop-down list.
Confirm. Fill out the pull request template with all information you want to mention.
Put "Fixes + link to the issue" in the pull request's description.
Put "[WIP] + short description" in the pull request's title.
Click ``Create pull request``.

> 23. Add a [changelog fragment](https://docs.ansible.com/ansible/latest/community/development_process.html#changelogs). It will be published in release notes, so users will know about the fix.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
23. Add a [changelog fragment](https://docs.ansible.com/ansible/devel/community/development_process.html#changelogs). It will be published in release notes, so users will know about the fix.
```

Author: Makes sense!

# Contributing

> Contributing to this repository, we follow [Ansible Code of Conduct](https://docs.ansible.com/ansible/latest/community/code_of_conduct.html) in all our interactions within the project.

Author: Cool, thanks, sounds much better. Committed

There you can find feature ideas to implement, reports about bugs to solve, or submit an issue to discuss your idea before implementing it which can help choose a right direction initially and potentially save a lot of time and effort.
Also somebody can already start discussing or working on implementing the same or similar idea,
so you can cooperate to create a better solution together.

## Open pull requests

Look through currently [open pull requests](https://github.com/ansible-collections/community.mysql/pulls).
You can help by reviewing them. There can be good pull requests which are not merged only because there are a lack of reviews. Also there can be valuable, reviewed, but abandoned ones, which you could politely ask the original authors to complete yourself.
And it is always worth saying that good reviews are often more valuable than pull requests themselves.

## Looking for an idea to implement

First, see the paragraphs above.

If you came up with a new feature, it is always worth creating an issue
before starting to write code to discuss the idea with the community first.

## Step-by-step guide how to get into development quickly

> We assume you use Linux as a work environment (you can use a virtual machine as well) and `git` installed.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
We assume that you use Linux as a work environment (you can use a virtual machine as well) and have `git` installed.
```

1. If possible, make sure that you have installed and started `docker`. While you can also run tests without docker, this makes it a lot easier since you do not have to install the precise requirements and tests are running properly isolated and in the exact same environments as in CI. You often can also use `podman` with the `docker` executable shim, so if you have that you probably do not need to install `docker`.

2. Clone the [ansible-core](https://github.com/ansible/ansible) repository:
```bash
git clone https://github.com/ansible/ansible.git
```

Instead of installing ansible-core from source, you can also work with an already existing installation of Ansible, ansible-base or ansible-core. Simply skip steps 2 and 3 in that case.

3. Go to the cloned repository and prepare the environment:
```bash
cd ansible && source hacking/env-setup
pip install -r requirements.txt
cd ~
```
4. Create the following directories in your home directory:
```bash
mkdir -p ~/ansible_collections/community/mysql
```

> 5. Fork the `community.mysql` repository via the GitHub web interface.

Author: Funny, I always demand not to use Latin phrases;)

6. Clone the forked repository from your profile to the created path:
```bash
git clone https://github.com/YOURACC/community.mysql.git ~/ansible_collections/community/mysql
```

If you prefer to use the SSH protocol:
```bash
git clone git@github.com:YOURACC/community.mysql.git ~/ansible_collections/community/mysql
```

7. Go there:
```bash
cd ~/ansible_collections/community/mysql
```

8. Be sure you are in the main branch:
```bash
git status
```

9. Show remotes. There should be the `origin` repository only:
```bash
git remote -v
```

10. Add the `upstream` repository:
```bash
git remote add upstream https://github.com/ansible-collections/community.mysql.git
```

11. Update your local `main` branch:
```bash
git fetch upstream
git rebase upstream/main
```

12. Create a branch for your changes:
```bash

> git branch -b name_of_my_branch

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
git checkout -b name_of_my_branch
```

Author: it was `branch`??? strange... thanks:)))

```

13. It can be a good approach is to start with writing integration tests if applicable.

Note: If there are any difficulties with writing the tests or you are not sure if the case can be covered, feel free to skip this step.
If needed, other contributors can help you with it later.

All integration tests are stored in `tests/integration/targets` subdirectories.
You are interested in a subdirectory containing a name of module you are going to change.
For example, if you are fixing the `mysql_user` module, its tests are in `tests/integration/targets/test_mysql_user/tasks`

> There is the `main.yml` file which includes other test files.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
The `main.yml` file holds test tasks and includes other test files.
```

> There is the `main.yml` file which includes other test files.

Author: Good spotted!

> Look for a suitable one to integrate your tests or create and include a dedicated one.

Author: much better! We shouldn't be greedy for words when writing documentation..

It shows unused imports, which is not shown by sanity tests (see the next step), as well as other common issues.
Optionally, you can use the `--max-line-length=160` command-line argument.

16. Run sanity tests:
```bash
ansible-test sanity plugins/modules/mysql_user.py --docker
```
If they failed, look at the output carefully - it is usually very informative and helps to identify a problem line quickly.
Sanity failings usually relate to wrong code and documentation formatting.

17. Run integration tests:
```bash
ansible-test integration test_mysql_user --docker -vvv
```

There are two possible outcomes:
a) They have failed. Look at the output of the command.
Fix the problem place in the code and run again.
Repeat the cycle until the tests pass.

b) They have passed. Remember they failed originally? Our congratulations! You has probably fixed the bug, though we hope not introducing a couple of new ones;)

18. Commit your changes with an informative but short commit message:
```bash
git add /path/to/changed/file
git commit -m "mysql_user: fix crash when ..."
```

19. Push the branch to the `origin` (your fork):
```bash

> git push origin name_of_my_branch

Reviewer 4: No, this line is correct.

```

20. Go to the `upstream` (http://github.com/ansible-collections/community.mysql).

21. Go to `Pull requests` tab and create a pull request.

GitHub is tracking your fork, so it should see the new branch in it and automatically offer
to create a pull request. Sometimes GitHub does not do it and you should click the `New pull request` button yourself.
Then choose `compare across forks` under the `Compare changes` title.
Choose your repository and the new branch you pushed in the right drop-down list.
Confirm. Fill out the pull request template with all information you want to mention.
Put "Fixes + link to the issue" in the pull request's description.

> Put "[WIP] + short description" in the pull request's title.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Put "[WIP] + short description" in the pull request's title. It's often a good idea to mention the name of the module/plugin you are modifying at the beginning of the description.
```

Author: definitely!

Click `Create pull request`.

> 22. Add a [changelog fragment](https://docs.ansible.com/ansible/devel/community/development_process.html#changelogs) to the `changelog/fragments` directory. It will be published in release notes, so users will know about the fix.

Reviewer 4: @Andersson007 This should be step 18, or the changelog fragment will not make it to the PR

Author: @Jorge-Rodriguez the problem is that we often don't know a PR number until it's created (it's technically possible to predict but it would be hard to explain how).

Reviewer 4: In that case, we're missing step 23 (and 24?) to commit and push the changelog fragments

Author: @Jorge-Rodriguez very good spotted, thanks! I added a comment and bash code fragment to step 22

23. The CI tests will run automatically on Red Hat infrastructure after every commit.

You will see their status in the bottom of your pull request.
If they are green, remove "[WIP]" from the title. Mention the issue reporter in a comment and let contributors know that the pull request is "Ready for review".

> 24. Wait for reviews. You can also ask for review on IRC in #ansible-community channel.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
24. Wait for reviews. You can also ask for review on IRC in the #ansible-community channel.
```

```

11. Update your local `main` branch:
```bash
git fetch upstream
git rebase upstream/main
```

12. Create a branch for your changes:
```bash
git branch -b name_of_my_branch
```

13. It can be a good approach is to start with writing integration tests if applicable.

Note: If there are any difficulties with writing the tests or you are not sure if the case can be covered, feel free to skip this step.
If needed, other contributors can help you with it later.

All integration tests are stored in `tests/integration/targets` subdirectories.
You are interested in a subdirectory containing a name of module you are going to change.
For example, if you are fixing the `mysql_user` module, its tests are in `tests/integration/targets/test_mysql_user/tasks`

There is the `main.yml` file which includes other test files.
Look for a suitable one to integrate your tests or create and include a dedicated one.
You can use one of the existing as a draft.

When fixing a bug, write a task which reproduces the bug from the issue.

Put the reported case in the tests, then run integration tests with the following command:
```bash

> ansible-test integration test_mysql_user --docker -vvv > ~/test.log

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
ansible-test integration test_mysql_user --docker -vvv
```

Author: Thanks, committed!

a) If the bug has not appeared and the tests have passed successfully, ask the reporter to provide more details. The bug can be not a bug actually or can relate to a particular software version used or specifics of local environment configuration.

b) The bug has appeared and the tests has failed as expected showing the reported symptoms.

14. Fix the bug.

15. Run `flake8` against a changed file. If it is `plugins/modules/mysql_user.py`:
```bash
flake8 plugins/modules/mysql_user.py
```
It is worth installing and running `flake8` against the changed file(s) first.
It shows unused imports, which is not shown by sanity tests (see the next step), as well as other common issues.
Optionally, you can use the `--max-line-length=160` command-line argument.

16. Run sanity tests:
```bash
ansible-test sanity plugins/modules/mysql_user.py --docker
```
If they failed, look at the output carefully - it is usually very informative and helps to identify a problem line quickly.
Sanity failings usually relate to wrong code and documentation formatting.

17. Run integration tests:
```bash
ansible-test integration test_mysql_user --docker -vvv
```

There are two possible outcomes:

> a) They have failed. Look into the `test.log`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
a) They have failed. Look at the output of your command.
```

Author: good spot! maybe `output of the command`?

> Errors are usually at the end of the file.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Errors are usually at the end.
```

Author: maybe we'll remove this sentence at all?
